README.md, before:

# Awesome CodeIgniter  [![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)
A list of awesome [Codeigniter](http://codeigniter.com) core, helpers, hooks, language, libraries, third_party and other cool resources for CodeIgniter.

Inspired by [ziadoz/awesome-php](https://github.com/ziadoz/awesome-php)

## Contributing
Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## Table of contents
* [Complex](#complex)
* [CMS](#cms)
* [Libraries](#libraries)
* [Model](#model)
* [Third Party](#third-party)
* [CRUD Generator](#crud-generator)
* [Templates](#templates)
* [Web Services](#web-services)
* [Realtime](#realtime)
* [Books](#books)
* [User Guide Translations](#user-guide-translations)
* [Community](#community)

## Complex
* [Faster Development of CodeIgniter Apps](https://github.com/ci-bonfire/Bonfire) - Jumpstart your CodeIgniter web applications.
* [Sprint PHP](https://github.com/ci-bonfire/Sprint) - A lightweight, modern addition to CodeIgniter 3. The heart of Bonfire Next.

## CMS
* [Pusaka CMS](https://github.com/codepolitan-lab/pusakacms) - Flat file CMS.
* [Fuelcms](https://github.com/daylightstudio/FUEL-CMS) - The content management system for premium-grade websites.
* [No-CMS](https://github.com/goFrendiAsgard/No-CMS) - A CodeIgniter Based CMS Framework.
* [cms-canvas](https://github.com/diyphpdeveloper/cms-canvas) - CodeIgniter CMS.
* [Ionize CMS](https://github.com/ionize/ionize) - ionize, native multilingual CMS.
* [Codefight CMS](https://github.com/dbashyal/Codefight-CMS) - Codefight a Codeigniter CMS.
* [Bonfire](https://github.com/ci-bonfire/Bonfire) - Jumpstart your CodeIgniter web applications.
* [Hoosk](https://github.com/havok89/Hoosk) - Hoosk Codeigniter CMS.
* [Halogy](https://github.com/jesseorndorff/Halogy) - Friendly, open source, easy-to-use publishing.
* [ImageCMS](https://github.com/imagecms/ImageCMS) - Open source php CMS based on CodeIgniter.
* [nodCMS](https://github.com/khodakhah/nodcms) - A Free CMS powered by CodeIgniter.
* [MaxSite CMS](https://github.com/maxsite/cms) - MaxSite CMS.
* [ci-cms](https://bitbucket.org/hery/ci-cms) - CI-CMS using Modular Extensions.
* [Codeigniter-Egypt](https://github.com/blazeeboy/Codeigniter-Egypt) - Another Codeigniter CMS, With some Love.

## Core
* [CodeIgniter-Email-PHP-Errors](https://github.com/mikedfunk/CodeIgniter-Email-PHP-Errors) - A configurable drop-in customization to email yourself PHP errors encountered.
* ~~[CodeIgniter SimpleTest](https://github.com/ericbarnes/codeigniter-simpletest) - CodeIgniter with SimpleTest.~~

## Libraries
* [Biostall Google Map API](https://github.com/BIOSTALL/CodeIgniter-Google-Maps-V3-API-Library) - Google Map API.
* [CodeIgniter Recaptcha](https://github.com/hok00age/codeigniter-recaptcha) - CodeIgniter library to work with reCAPTCHA.
* [Ion Auth 2](https://github.com/benedmunds/CodeIgniter-Ion-Auth) - Simple and Lightweight Auth System.
* [Tank-Auth](https://github.com/TankAuth/Tank-Auth) - Authentication library.
* [CodeIgniter Redis](https://github.com/joelcox/codeigniter-redis) - A CodeIgniter library to interact with Redis.
* [Memcached Library for CodeIgniter](https://github.com/tomschlick/memcached-library) - Library to Interface with the Memcached system.
* [CodeIgniter-Cache](https://github.com/benedmunds/codeigniter-cache) - CodeIgniter-Cache is a partial caching library for CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter PHPMailer](https://github.com/ivantcholakov/codeigniter-phpmailer) - A CodeIgniter compatible email-library powered by PHPMailer.
* [CodeIgniter-CLI](https://github.com/philsturgeon/codeigniter-cli) - Work with CodeIgniter over the command line.
* [CodeIgniter Bootstrap](https://github.com/sjlu/CodeIgniter-Bootstrap) - Bundles packages CI, REST, Twitter Bootstrap, FA, lodash.
* [Codeigniter-breadcrumbs](https://github.com/nobuti/Codeigniter-breadcrumbs) - Small breadcrumb library for CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter-Breadcrumb](https://github.com/richarddavey/codeigniter-breadcrumb) - Breadcrumb generating library for CodeIgniter.
* [Sitemaps CodeIgniter](https://github.com/chemicaloliver/codeigniter-sitemaps) - A simple library to autogenerate xml sitemaps.
* [CodeIgniter-Unzip](https://github.com/philsturgeon/codeigniter-unzip) - Extract ZIP files in CodeIgniter without installing any PECL.
* [Forensics CodeIgniter](https://github.com/lonnieezell/codeigniter-forensics) - A high-powered, customizable Profiler replacement.
* [CodeIgniter-Postmark](https://github.com/zackkitzmiller/postmark-codeigniter) - A Postmark (postmarkapp.com) library for CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter Schema](https://github.com/jamierumbelow/codeigniter-schema) - Expressive table definitions.
* [CodeIgniter-Aauth](https://github.com/emreakay/CodeIgniter-Aauth) - Authorization, authentication and User Management library.
* [CI-FIle-Browser-Awesome](https://github.com/bachors/CI-FIle-Browser-Awesome) - Simple plugin file browser for codeigniter with jQuery.
* [CodeIgniter Minify](https://github.com/ericbarnes/ci-minify) - Minify css and js files in CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter - minify](https://github.com/slav123/CodeIgniter-minify) - Minify library CSS and JavaScript compression on the fly.
* [codeigniter-alert](https://github.com/dnizh93/codeigniter-alert) - An easy flashdata alert for codeigniter.
* [Bcrypt CodeIgniter](https://github.com/dwightwatson/codeigniter-bcrypt) - Adaption of PHPPass for use as a CodeIgniter Bcrypt library.
* [facebook-ion-auth](https://github.com/dgeorgiev/facebook-ion-auth) - Facebook login working with ion_auth.
* [CodeIgniter Multi-Upload](https://github.com/stvnthomas/CodeIgniter-Multi-Upload) - Multiple file upload support for CodeIgniter 2.x.
* [elasticsearch-codeigniter-library](https://github.com/confact/elasticsearch-codeigniter-library) - A small library to make search queries.
* [Ignited Datatables](https://github.com/IgnitedDatatables/Ignited-Datatables) - a wrapper class/library based on the native Datatables.
* [codeigniter-datatables](https://github.com/blake-nouribekian/codeigniter-datatables) - PHP Codeigniter server-side for jQuery DataTables.
* [CodeIgniter Geolocation](https://github.com/JCSama/CodeIgniter-geolocation) - Library allows you to locate an IP Address.
* [CodeIgniter-reCAPTCHA](https://github.com/appleboy/CodeIgniter-reCAPTCHA) -  reCAPTCHA library for CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter-Instagram-API](https://github.com/suhindra/CodeIgniter-Instagram-API) -  CodeIgniter library to interact with the Instagram API.

## Model
* [CodeIgniter-MY_Model](https://github.com/avenirer/CodeIgniter-MY_Model) - The result of a lengthy tutorial about constructing a MY_Model.
* [CIModelTester](https://github.com/cwingrav/CIModelTester) - An interactive model web interface.

## Third Party
* [Codeigniterplus](https://github.com/ranacseruet/codeigniterplus) - Scaffolding for a good standard web application.
* [Modular Extensions - HMVC](https://bitbucket.org/wiredesignz/codeigniter-modular-extensions-hmvc) - Modular Extensions makes the CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter HMVC Modules](https://github.com/jenssegers/codeigniter-hmvc-modules) - Create HMVC modules with this lightweight extension.
* [codeigniter-phpunit](https://github.com/fmalk/codeigniter-phpunit) - Hack to make CodeIgniter work with PHPUnit.
* [CodeIgniter Installer](https://github.com/mikecrittenden/codeigniter-installer) - A starting point for building an installer on CodeIgniter.
* [Developer Toolbar](https://github.com/JCSama/CodeIgniter-develbar) - Developer Toolbar is a third party library based on Profiler.

## CRUD
* [Grocery CRUD](https://github.com/scoumbourdis/grocery-crud) - CRUD library that creates a full functional.
* [Grocery CRUD Image] (http://www.grocerycrud.com/image-crud) - CRUD Image lbrary by grocerycrud
* [codeigniter-base-model](https://github.com/jamierumbelow/codeigniter-base-model) - CodeIgniter base CRUD model.
* [ci-gen](https://github.com/brainlabs/ci-gen) - Codeigniter CRUD Code Generator With Bootstrap.
* [ciig](https://github.com/shabeeb/ciig) - Codignator scaffolder for developers.
* [iScaffold](https://github.com/tiborsaas/iScaffold) - A CRUD application generator.
* [Codeigniter CRUD Generator](https://bitbucket.org/harviacode/codeigniter-crud-generator) - CRUD Generator is a simple tool to auto generate MVC.

## Templates
* [Twiggy](https://github.com/edmundask/codeigniter-twiggy) - Template engine implementation for CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter-Template](https://github.com/philsturgeon/codeigniter-template) - Template library for CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter Template Library](https://github.com/jenssegers/codeigniter-template-library) - A template library for Codeigniter.
* [MY_Controller](https://github.com/lonnieezell/my_controller) - Simple template engine and many convenience features.
* [Assets](https://github.com/creolab/assets) - Simple assets manager supports LESS, SASS, CoffeeScript.

## Web Services
* [CodeIgniter Rest Server](https://github.com/chriskacerguis/codeigniter-restserver) - A fully RESTful server implementation for CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter-REST Client](https://github.com/philsturgeon/codeigniter-restclient) - A RESTful client CodeIgniter library.
* [HybridIgniter](https://github.com/andacata/HybridIgniter) - HybridAuth - CodeIgniter integration.
* [Omnipay](https://github.com/thephpleague/omnipay) - A framework agnostic, multi-gateway payment processing library.
* [Veritrans Codeigniter](https://github.com/harrypujianto/Veritrans-Codeigniter) - Payment gateway library on Veritrans.
* [Codeigniter TwitterOauth](https://github.com/MunGell/Codeigniter-TwitterOAuth) - Codeigniter and TwitterOauth library integration.
* [CodeIgniter-Twitter](https://github.com/elliothaughin/codeigniter-twitter) - Twitter API library for CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter-Facebook](https://github.com/elliothaughin/codeigniter-facebook) - Facebook Graph API, OpenGraph, and Connect.
* [CodeIgniter-bitly](https://github.com/patrickpopowicz/codeigniter-bitly) - A CodeIgniter library for the bit.ly REST API.

## ORM
* [Datamapper ORM](https://github.com/WanWizard/sparks-datamapper) - CodeIgniter Sparks Package for Datamapper ORM.
* [Gas ORM](https://github.com/toopay/gas-orm) - A lighweight and easy-to-use ORM for CodeIgniter

## Realtime
* [Codeiginter FB like Chat library](https://github.com/abuzer/ci-chat) - codeigniter facebook chat library.
* [Codeigniter Chat](https://github.com/llbbl/codeigniter-chat) - web based chat -- right now just a simple shoutbox.
* [Simple-realtime-message-SocketIO-NodeJS-CI](https://github.com/moemoe89/Simple-realtime-message-SocketIO-NodeJS-CI) - Simple realtime push message using CodeIgniter, Socket.IO (Node.JS), MySQL.

## Books
* [Practical CodeIgniter 3](https://leanpub.com/practicalcodeigniter3) - A concise, fun guide to getting up to speed using the CodeIgniter 3.

## User Guide Translations
* [Indonesia](http://codeigniter-id.github.io/user-guide/) - Indonesian Codeigniter User Guide.

## Community
* [Official CodeIgniter](https://github.com/bcit-ci/CodeIgniter)
* [Chinese](https://github.com/CodeIgniter-Chinese)
* [Indonesia](https://github.com/codeigniter-id)
* [Japan](https://github.com/codeigniter-jp)
* [Brazil](https://github.com/CIBr)
* [Polandia](https://github.com/codeigniter-polska)
* [Taiwan](https://github.com/CodeIgniter-TW)
* [Korea](https://github.com/codeigniter-korea-forum)

## License

[![CC0](https://i.creativecommons.org/p/zero/1.0/88x31.png)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

To the extent possible under law, [CodeIgniter Indonesia](https://github.com/codeigniter-id) has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this work.

Commit message:

Add note for Strike-through

README.md, after:

# Awesome CodeIgniter  [![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)
A list of awesome [Codeigniter](http://codeigniter.com) core, helpers, hooks, language, libraries, third_party and other cool resources for CodeIgniter.

Inspired by [ziadoz/awesome-php](https://github.com/ziadoz/awesome-php)

**Note**: ~~Strike-through~~ means, that this CodeIgniter 2.x resource has not yet been upgraded to 3.0.

## Contributing
Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## Table of contents
* [Complex](#complex)
* [CMS](#cms)
* [Libraries](#libraries)
* [Model](#model)
* [Third Party](#third-party)
* [CRUD Generator](#crud-generator)
* [Templates](#templates)
* [Web Services](#web-services)
* [Realtime](#realtime)
* [Books](#books)
* [User Guide Translations](#user-guide-translations)
* [Community](#community)

## Complex
* [Faster Development of CodeIgniter Apps](https://github.com/ci-bonfire/Bonfire) - Jumpstart your CodeIgniter web applications.
* [Sprint PHP](https://github.com/ci-bonfire/Sprint) - A lightweight, modern addition to CodeIgniter 3. The heart of Bonfire Next.

## CMS
* [Pusaka CMS](https://github.com/codepolitan-lab/pusakacms) - Flat file CMS.
* [Fuelcms](https://github.com/daylightstudio/FUEL-CMS) - The content management system for premium-grade websites.
* [No-CMS](https://github.com/goFrendiAsgard/No-CMS) - A CodeIgniter Based CMS Framework.
* [cms-canvas](https://github.com/diyphpdeveloper/cms-canvas) - CodeIgniter CMS.
* [Ionize CMS](https://github.com/ionize/ionize) - ionize, native multilingual CMS.
* [Codefight CMS](https://github.com/dbashyal/Codefight-CMS) - Codefight a Codeigniter CMS.
* [Bonfire](https://github.com/ci-bonfire/Bonfire) - Jumpstart your CodeIgniter web applications.
* [Hoosk](https://github.com/havok89/Hoosk) - Hoosk Codeigniter CMS.
* [Halogy](https://github.com/jesseorndorff/Halogy) - Friendly, open source, easy-to-use publishing.
* [ImageCMS](https://github.com/imagecms/ImageCMS) - Open source php CMS based on CodeIgniter.
* [nodCMS](https://github.com/khodakhah/nodcms) - A Free CMS powered by CodeIgniter.
* [MaxSite CMS](https://github.com/maxsite/cms) - MaxSite CMS.
* [ci-cms](https://bitbucket.org/hery/ci-cms) - CI-CMS using Modular Extensions.
* [Codeigniter-Egypt](https://github.com/blazeeboy/Codeigniter-Egypt) - Another Codeigniter CMS, With some Love.

## Core
* [CodeIgniter-Email-PHP-Errors](https://github.com/mikedfunk/CodeIgniter-Email-PHP-Errors) - A configurable drop-in customization to email yourself PHP errors encountered.
* ~~[CodeIgniter SimpleTest](https://github.com/ericbarnes/codeigniter-simpletest) - CodeIgniter with SimpleTest.~~

## Libraries
* [Biostall Google Map API](https://github.com/BIOSTALL/CodeIgniter-Google-Maps-V3-API-Library) - Google Map API.
* [CodeIgniter Recaptcha](https://github.com/hok00age/codeigniter-recaptcha) - CodeIgniter library to work with reCAPTCHA.
* [Ion Auth 2](https://github.com/benedmunds/CodeIgniter-Ion-Auth) - Simple and Lightweight Auth System.
* [Tank-Auth](https://github.com/TankAuth/Tank-Auth) - Authentication library.
* [CodeIgniter Redis](https://github.com/joelcox/codeigniter-redis) - A CodeIgniter library to interact with Redis.
* [Memcached Library for CodeIgniter](https://github.com/tomschlick/memcached-library) - Library to Interface with the Memcached system.
* [CodeIgniter-Cache](https://github.com/benedmunds/codeigniter-cache) - CodeIgniter-Cache is a partial caching library for CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter PHPMailer](https://github.com/ivantcholakov/codeigniter-phpmailer) - A CodeIgniter compatible email-library powered by PHPMailer.
* [CodeIgniter-CLI](https://github.com/philsturgeon/codeigniter-cli) - Work with CodeIgniter over the command line.
* [CodeIgniter Bootstrap](https://github.com/sjlu/CodeIgniter-Bootstrap) - Bundles packages CI, REST, Twitter Bootstrap, FA, lodash.
* [Codeigniter-breadcrumbs](https://github.com/nobuti/Codeigniter-breadcrumbs) - Small breadcrumb library for CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter-Breadcrumb](https://github.com/richarddavey/codeigniter-breadcrumb) - Breadcrumb generating library for CodeIgniter.
* [Sitemaps CodeIgniter](https://github.com/chemicaloliver/codeigniter-sitemaps) - A simple library to autogenerate xml sitemaps.
* [CodeIgniter-Unzip](https://github.com/philsturgeon/codeigniter-unzip) - Extract ZIP files in CodeIgniter without installing any PECL.
* [Forensics CodeIgniter](https://github.com/lonnieezell/codeigniter-forensics) - A high-powered, customizable Profiler replacement.
* [CodeIgniter-Postmark](https://github.com/zackkitzmiller/postmark-codeigniter) - A Postmark (postmarkapp.com) library for CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter Schema](https://github.com/jamierumbelow/codeigniter-schema) - Expressive table definitions.
* [CodeIgniter-Aauth](https://github.com/emreakay/CodeIgniter-Aauth) - Authorization, authentication and User Management library.
* [CI-FIle-Browser-Awesome](https://github.com/bachors/CI-FIle-Browser-Awesome) - Simple plugin file browser for codeigniter with jQuery.
* [CodeIgniter Minify](https://github.com/ericbarnes/ci-minify) - Minify css and js files in CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter - minify](https://github.com/slav123/CodeIgniter-minify) - Minify library CSS and JavaScript compression on the fly.
* [codeigniter-alert](https://github.com/dnizh93/codeigniter-alert) - An easy flashdata alert for codeigniter.
* [Bcrypt CodeIgniter](https://github.com/dwightwatson/codeigniter-bcrypt) - Adaption of PHPPass for use as a CodeIgniter Bcrypt library.
* [facebook-ion-auth](https://github.com/dgeorgiev/facebook-ion-auth) - Facebook login working with ion_auth.
* [CodeIgniter Multi-Upload](https://github.com/stvnthomas/CodeIgniter-Multi-Upload) - Multiple file upload support for CodeIgniter 2.x.
* [elasticsearch-codeigniter-library](https://github.com/confact/elasticsearch-codeigniter-library) - A small library to make search queries.
* [Ignited Datatables](https://github.com/IgnitedDatatables/Ignited-Datatables) - a wrapper class/library based on the native Datatables.
* [codeigniter-datatables](https://github.com/blake-nouribekian/codeigniter-datatables) - PHP Codeigniter server-side for jQuery DataTables.
* [CodeIgniter Geolocation](https://github.com/JCSama/CodeIgniter-geolocation) - Library allows you to locate an IP Address.
* [CodeIgniter-reCAPTCHA](https://github.com/appleboy/CodeIgniter-reCAPTCHA) -  reCAPTCHA library for CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter-Instagram-API](https://github.com/suhindra/CodeIgniter-Instagram-API) -  CodeIgniter library to interact with the Instagram API.

## Model
* [CodeIgniter-MY_Model](https://github.com/avenirer/CodeIgniter-MY_Model) - The result of a lengthy tutorial about constructing a MY_Model.
* [CIModelTester](https://github.com/cwingrav/CIModelTester) - An interactive model web interface.

## Third Party
* [Codeigniterplus](https://github.com/ranacseruet/codeigniterplus) - Scaffolding for a good standard web application.
* [Modular Extensions - HMVC](https://bitbucket.org/wiredesignz/codeigniter-modular-extensions-hmvc) - Modular Extensions makes the CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter HMVC Modules](https://github.com/jenssegers/codeigniter-hmvc-modules) - Create HMVC modules with this lightweight extension.
* [codeigniter-phpunit](https://github.com/fmalk/codeigniter-phpunit) - Hack to make CodeIgniter work with PHPUnit.
* [CodeIgniter Installer](https://github.com/mikecrittenden/codeigniter-installer) - A starting point for building an installer on CodeIgniter.
* [Developer Toolbar](https://github.com/JCSama/CodeIgniter-develbar) - Developer Toolbar is a third party library based on Profiler.

## CRUD
* [Grocery CRUD](https://github.com/scoumbourdis/grocery-crud) - CRUD library that creates a full functional.
* [Grocery CRUD Image] (http://www.grocerycrud.com/image-crud) - CRUD Image lbrary by grocerycrud
* [codeigniter-base-model](https://github.com/jamierumbelow/codeigniter-base-model) - CodeIgniter base CRUD model.
* [ci-gen](https://github.com/brainlabs/ci-gen) - Codeigniter CRUD Code Generator With Bootstrap.
* [ciig](https://github.com/shabeeb/ciig) - Codignator scaffolder for developers.
* [iScaffold](https://github.com/tiborsaas/iScaffold) - A CRUD application generator.
* [Codeigniter CRUD Generator](https://bitbucket.org/harviacode/codeigniter-crud-generator) - CRUD Generator is a simple tool to auto generate MVC.

## Templates
* [Twiggy](https://github.com/edmundask/codeigniter-twiggy) - Template engine implementation for CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter-Template](https://github.com/philsturgeon/codeigniter-template) - Template library for CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter Template Library](https://github.com/jenssegers/codeigniter-template-library) - A template library for Codeigniter.
* [MY_Controller](https://github.com/lonnieezell/my_controller) - Simple template engine and many convenience features.
* [Assets](https://github.com/creolab/assets) - Simple assets manager supports LESS, SASS, CoffeeScript.

## Web Services
* [CodeIgniter Rest Server](https://github.com/chriskacerguis/codeigniter-restserver) - A fully RESTful server implementation for CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter-REST Client](https://github.com/philsturgeon/codeigniter-restclient) - A RESTful client CodeIgniter library.
* [HybridIgniter](https://github.com/andacata/HybridIgniter) - HybridAuth - CodeIgniter integration.
* [Omnipay](https://github.com/thephpleague/omnipay) - A framework agnostic, multi-gateway payment processing library.
* [Veritrans Codeigniter](https://github.com/harrypujianto/Veritrans-Codeigniter) - Payment gateway library on Veritrans.
* [Codeigniter TwitterOauth](https://github.com/MunGell/Codeigniter-TwitterOAuth) - Codeigniter and TwitterOauth library integration.
* [CodeIgniter-Twitter](https://github.com/elliothaughin/codeigniter-twitter) - Twitter API library for CodeIgniter.
* [CodeIgniter-Facebook](https://github.com/elliothaughin/codeigniter-facebook) - Facebook Graph API, OpenGraph, and Connect.
* [CodeIgniter-bitly](https://github.com/patrickpopowicz/codeigniter-bitly) - A CodeIgniter library for the bit.ly REST API.

## ORM
* [Datamapper ORM](https://github.com/WanWizard/sparks-datamapper) - CodeIgniter Sparks Package for Datamapper ORM.
* [Gas ORM](https://github.com/toopay/gas-orm) - A lighweight and easy-to-use ORM for CodeIgniter

## Realtime
* [Codeiginter FB like Chat library](https://github.com/abuzer/ci-chat) - codeigniter facebook chat library.
* [Codeigniter Chat](https://github.com/llbbl/codeigniter-chat) - web based chat -- right now just a simple shoutbox.
* [Simple-realtime-message-SocketIO-NodeJS-CI](https://github.com/moemoe89/Simple-realtime-message-SocketIO-NodeJS-CI) - Simple realtime push message using CodeIgniter, Socket.IO (Node.JS), MySQL.

## Books
* [Practical CodeIgniter 3](https://leanpub.com/practicalcodeigniter3) - A concise, fun guide to getting up to speed using the CodeIgniter 3.

## User Guide Translations
* [Indonesia](http://codeigniter-id.github.io/user-guide/) - Indonesian Codeigniter User Guide.

## Community
* [Official CodeIgniter](https://github.com/bcit-ci/CodeIgniter)
* [Chinese](https://github.com/CodeIgniter-Chinese)
* [Indonesia](https://github.com/codeigniter-id)
* [Japan](https://github.com/codeigniter-jp)
* [Brazil](https://github.com/CIBr)
* [Polandia](https://github.com/codeigniter-polska)
* [Taiwan](https://github.com/CodeIgniter-TW)
* [Korea](https://github.com/codeigniter-korea-forum)

## License

[![CC0](https://i.creativecommons.org/p/zero/1.0/88x31.png)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

To the extent possible under law, [CodeIgniter Indonesia](https://github.com/codeigniter-id) has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this work.
